Writerside/topics/authentication-setup.md, before:

# Authentication

MediaManager supports multiple authentication methods. Email/password authentication is the default, but you can also
enable OpenID Connect (OAuth 2.0) for integration with external identity providers.

All authentication settings are configured in the `[auth]` section of your `config.toml` file.

## General Authentication Settings (`[auth]`)

- `token_secret`

Strong secret key for signing JWTs (create with `openssl rand -hex 32`). This is a required field.

- `session_lifetime`

Lifetime of user sessions in seconds. Default is `86400` (1 day).

- `admin_emails`

A list of email addresses for administrator accounts. This is a required field.

- `email_password_resets`

Toggle for enabling password resets via email. If users request a password reset because they forgot their password,
they will be sent an email with a link to reset it. Default is `false`.

<note>
    To use email password resets, you must also configure SMTP settings in the <code>[notifications.smtp_config]</code> section.
</note>

<include from="notes.topic" element-id="auth-admin-emails"></include>

## OpenID Connect Settings (`[auth.openid_connect]`)

OpenID Connect allows you to integrate with external identity providers like Google, Microsoft Azure AD, Keycloak, or
any other OIDC-compliant provider.

- `enabled`

Set to `true` to enable OpenID Connect authentication. Default is `false`.

- `client_id`

Client ID provided by your OpenID Connect provider.

- `client_secret`

Client secret provided by your OpenID Connect provider.

- `configuration_endpoint`

OpenID Connect configuration endpoint URL. Note the lack of a trailing slash - this is important. It usually ends with
`.well-known/openid-configuration`.

- `name`

Display name for the OpenID Connect provider that will be shown on the login page.

### Configuration for your OpenID Connect Provider

#### Redirect URI

The OpenID server will likely require a redirect URI. The exact path depends on the `name` of the OIDC provider. Note
that the `name` is case-sensitive.

```
{FRONTEND_URL}/api/v1/auth/cookie/{OPENID_NAME}/callback
```

E.g.: I use `Authentik` as the `name`, thus the redirect URI would be:

```
https://mediamanager.example.com/api/v1/auth/cookie/Authentik/callback
```

#### Authentik Example {collapsible="true"}

Here is an example configuration for the OpenID Connect provider for Authentik.

![authentik-example-config.png](authentik-example-config.png)

#### PocketID Example {collapsible="true"}

Here is an example configuration for the OpenID Connect provider for PocketID.

![pocketid-example-config.png](pocketid-example-config.png)

## Example Configuration

Here's a complete example of the authentication section in your `config.toml`:

```toml
[auth]
token_secret = "a1b2c3d4e5f6g7h8i9j0k1l2m3n4o5p6q7r8s9t0u1v2w3x4y5z6"
session_lifetime = 604800  # 1 week
admin_emails = ["admin@example.com", "manager@example.com"]
email_password_resets = true

[auth.openid_connect]
enabled = true
client_id = "mediamanager-client"
client_secret = "your-secret-key-here"
configuration_endpoint = "https://auth.example.com/.well-known/openid-configuration"
name = "Authentik"
```

Commit message:

add warning to the callback uri documentation, reminding users to set the correct one

Writerside/topics/authentication-setup.md, after:

# Authentication

MediaManager supports multiple authentication methods. Email/password authentication is the default, but you can also
enable OpenID Connect (OAuth 2.0) for integration with external identity providers.

All authentication settings are configured in the `[auth]` section of your `config.toml` file.

## General Authentication Settings (`[auth]`)

- `token_secret`

Strong secret key for signing JWTs (create with `openssl rand -hex 32`). This is a required field.

- `session_lifetime`

Lifetime of user sessions in seconds. Default is `86400` (1 day).

- `admin_emails`

A list of email addresses for administrator accounts. This is a required field.

- `email_password_resets`

Toggle for enabling password resets via email. If users request a password reset because they forgot their password,
they will be sent an email with a link to reset it. Default is `false`.

<note>
    To use email password resets, you must also configure SMTP settings in the <code>[notifications.smtp_config]</code> section.
</note>

<include from="notes.topic" element-id="auth-admin-emails"></include>

## OpenID Connect Settings (`[auth.openid_connect]`)

OpenID Connect allows you to integrate with external identity providers like Google, Microsoft Azure AD, Keycloak, or
any other OIDC-compliant provider.

- `enabled`

Set to `true` to enable OpenID Connect authentication. Default is `false`.

- `client_id`

Client ID provided by your OpenID Connect provider.

- `client_secret`

Client secret provided by your OpenID Connect provider.

- `configuration_endpoint`

OpenID Connect configuration endpoint URL. Note the lack of a trailing slash - this is important. It usually ends with
`.well-known/openid-configuration`.

- `name`

Display name for the OpenID Connect provider that will be shown on the login page.

### Configuration for your OpenID Connect Provider

#### Redirect URI

The OpenID server will likely require a redirect URI. The exact path depends on the `name` of the OIDC provider. Note
that the `name` is case-sensitive.

```
{FRONTEND_URL}/api/v1/auth/cookie/{OPENID_NAME}/callback
```

<warning>It is very important that you set the correct callback URI, otherwise it won't work!</warning>


E.g.: I set `MyAuthProvider` as the `name` in the `[auth.openid_connect]` config section, thus the redirect URI would
be:

```
https://mediamanager.example.com/api/v1/auth/cookie/MyAuthProvider/callback
```

#### Authentik Example {collapsible="true"}

Here is an example configuration for the OpenID Connect provider for Authentik.

![authentik-example-config.png](authentik-example-config.png)

#### PocketID Example {collapsible="true"}

Here is an example configuration for the OpenID Connect provider for PocketID.

![pocketid-example-config.png](pocketid-example-config.png)

## Example Configuration

Here's a complete example of the authentication section in your `config.toml`:

```toml
[auth]
token_secret = "a1b2c3d4e5f6g7h8i9j0k1l2m3n4o5p6q7r8s9t0u1v2w3x4y5z6"
session_lifetime = 604800  # 1 week
admin_emails = ["admin@example.com", "manager@example.com"]
email_password_resets = true

[auth.openid_connect]
enabled = true
client_id = "mediamanager-client"
client_secret = "your-secret-key-here"
configuration_endpoint = "https://auth.example.com/.well-known/openid-configuration"
name = "Authentik"
```
